updates Cloudflare adapter docs for v10 (#7592)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/guides/integrations-guide/cloudflare.mdx

## Options

### imageService

<p>
**Type:** `'passthrough' | 'cloudflare' | 'compile'`<br />
**Default:** `'passthrough'`
</p>

Determines which image service is used by the adapter. The adapter will default to `passthrough` mode when an incompatible image service is configured. Otherwise, it will use the globally configured image service:

* **`cloudflare`:** Uses the [Cloudflare Image Resizing](https://developers.cloudflare.com/images/image-resizing/) service.
* **`passthrough`:** Uses the existing [`noop`](/en/guides/images/#configure-no-op-passthrough-service) service.
* **`compile`:** Uses Astro's default service (sharp), but only on pre-rendered routes at build time. During SSR for pages rendered on-demand, all `astro:assets` features are disabled.

```js title="astro.config.mjs" ins={6}
import {defineConfig} from "astro/config";
import cloudflare from '@astrojs/cloudflare';

export default defineConfig({
  adapter: cloudflare({
     imageService: 'cloudflare'
  }),
  output: 'server'
})
```

### platformProxy

> Determines whether and how the Cloudflare runtime is added to `astro dev`. It contains proxies (to local `workerd` bindings) and emulations of Cloudflare specific values, allowing the emulation of the runtime in the Node.js dev process. Read more about the [Cloudflare Runtime](#cloudflare-runtime).

Reviewer: are the parenthesis needed/beneficial? 🤔 
```suggestion
Determines whether and how the Cloudflare runtime is added to `astro dev`. It contains proxies to local `workerd` bindings and emulations of Cloudflare specific values, allowing the emulation of the runtime in the Node.js dev process. Read more about the [Cloudflare Runtime](#cloudflare-runtime).
```

> Determines whether and how the Cloudflare runtime is added to `astro dev`. It contains proxies (to local `workerd` bindings) and emulations of Cloudflare specific values, allowing the emulation of the runtime in the Node.js dev process. Read more about the [Cloudflare Runtime](#cloudflare-runtime).

Reviewer: I know you do specify `local` but it might be worth to emphasise that the bindings work only locally and aren't related to the production thing

I'm just mentioning this as I've seen people being confused as to why they can't see their production data during local development

Author: Thanks for this heads up, we'll not add it to the initial version, but can adapt if we see to many confusions.

:::note
Proxies provided by this are a best effort emulation of the real production. Although they are designed to be as close as possbile to the real thing, there might be a slight differences and inconsistencies between the two.
:::

#### platformProxy.enabled
<p>
**Type:** `{ enabled?: boolean }`<br />
**Default:** `{ enabled: false }`
</p>

The `enabled` property allows you to enable the Cloudflare runtime in `astro dev`.

#### platformProxy.configPath
<p>
**Type:** `{ configPath?: string }`<br />
**Default:** `{ configPath: 'wrangler.toml' }`
</p>

The `configPath` allows you to define your Wrangler configuration file, relative to the root of your Astro project. 

#### platformProxy.configPath
<p>
**Type:** `{ experimentalJsonConfig?: boolean }`<br />
**Default:** `{ experimentalJsonConfig?: false }`
</p>

> The `experimentalJsonConfig` property defines whether the utility reads a JSON config file (e.g. `wrangler.json`).

Reviewer: if for `getPlatformProxy` you set `configPath` to a json file, it will be read no problem

the `experimentalJsonConfig` option makes the utility look for a `wrangler.json`

so you might want to maybe tweak a bit this section 🙂 

(PS: I find this behavior a bit unexpected and confusing but it's the same for `wrangler (pages) dev` and `getPlatformProxy`, also the team finds it appropriate, so it's not an unintentional behavior 😅)

<p>
**Type:** `{ persist?: boolean | { path: string } }`<br />
**Default:** `{ persist: true }`
</p>

The `persist` property defines if and where the bindings data is persistent. `true` defaults to the same location used by Wrangler so data can be shared between the two. If `false`, no data is persited to or read from the filesystem.

:::note
`wrangler`'s `--persist-to` option adds a sub directory called `v3` under the hood while the `@astrojs/cloudflare` `persist` property does not. For example, to reuse the same location as running `wrangler dev --persist-to ./my-directory`, you must specify: `persist: "./my-directory/v3"`.
:::

> The following configuration shows enabling the Cloudflare runtime when running the development server, as well as using a `wrangler.json` config file (experimental). It also specifies a custom location for persisting data to the filesystem:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following configuration shows an example of enabling the Cloudflare runtime when running the development server, as well as using a `wrangler.json` config file (experimental). It also specifies a custom location for persisting data to the filesystem:
```

```js
import cloudflare from '@astrojs/cloudflare';
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';

export default defineConfig({
	adapter: cloudflare({
		platformProxy: {
			enabled: true,
			configPath: 'wrangler.json',

> 			experimentalJsonConfig: true,

Reviewer: as I mentioned above this field shouldn't be necessary in this case 🙂

			persist: './.cache/wrangler/v3',
		},
	}),
});
```
### routes.extend

This option allows you to add or exclude custom patterns (e.g. `/fonts/*`) to the generated [`_routes.json`](#custom-_routesjson) file that determines which routes are generated on-demand. This can be useful if you need to add route patterns which cannot be automatically generated, or exclude prerendered routes.

More information about the custom route patterns can be found in [Cloudflare's routing docs](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/functions/routing/#functions-invocation-routes). Any routes specified are not automatically deduplicated and will be appended to the existing routes as is.

#### routes.extend.include

<p>
**Type:** `{ pattern: string }[]`<br />
**Default:** `undefined`
</p>

Configure additional routes to be generated on demand by the Cloudflare adapter in the `routes.extend.include` array.

#### routes.extend.exclude

<p>
**Type:** `{ pattern: string }[]`<br />
**Default:** `undefined`
</p>

> Configure routes to be excluded from on-demand rendering in the `routes.extend.include` array. These routes will be prerendered and served statically instead, and will not invoke the SSR function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configure routes to be excluded from on-demand rendering in the `routes.extend.include` array. These static files (e.g. pages, images, text files) will be prerendered and served statically instead, and will not invoke the SSR function.
```
Is that a way to make this sentence accurate? If not, can you change it so that it is?

Author: ```suggestion
Configure routes to be excluded from on-demand rendering in the `routes.extend.exclude` array. These routes will be prerendered and served statically instead, and will not invoke the SSR function. Additionally you can use this option to serve any static asset (e.g. images, fonts, css, js, html, txt, json, etc.) files directly without routing the request through the SSR function.
```

Not really, so it is correct that **only** routes are prerendered, but other static files can also be added to the exclude array. Something like my suggestion should be technically accurate, please just check that it sounds good :)

Reviewer 2: Perfect, done!

**Default:** `undefined`
</p>

> Configure routes to be excluded from on-demand rendering in the `routes.extend.include` array. These routes will be prerendered and served statically instead, and will not invoke the SSR function.

Author: @sarah11918 These doesn't have to be necessarily pages though, it can also be static files, such as images, text files, etc.

DB_PASSWORD=myPassword
```

You can access the bindings by using Astro locals like this:

```astro title="src/pages/index.astro"
---
const { env } = Astro.locals.runtime;
---
```

You can access the runtime from API endpoints through `context.locals`:

```ts title="src/pages/api/someFile.js"
export function GET(context) {
  const runtime = context.locals.runtime;

  return new Response('Some body');
}
```

To access the value of the `MY_VARIABLE` binding add the following to your code:

```astro title="src/pages/index.astro"
---
const { env } = Astro.locals.runtime;
const myVariable = env.MY_VARIABLE;
---
```

> All supported bindings are updated on the Cloudflare docs. You can find the list of supported bindings [here](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/api/#supported-bindings).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<ReadMore>See the [list of all supported bindings](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/api/#supported-bindings) in the Cloudflare documentation.</ReadMore>
```

Vague Link Text Checker doing its job!  :raised_hands:  (The text of the link itself should be descriptive, and inform people of where they'll be taken)

### Routes

You can define which routes are invoking functions and which are static assets, using [Cloudflare routing](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/functions/routing/#functions-invocation-routes) via a `_routes.json` file.

#### Custom `_routes.json`

> By default, the adapter will generate a `_routes.json` file with `include` and `exclude` rules based on your applications.

Reviewer: is this done using the `routes.extend` option mentioned above? is so maybe this could clearly reference that?

import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
```

You'll also need to modify the `vite` configuration in your astro config to allow for the `node:*` import syntax:

```js title="astro.config.mjs" ins={7-11}
import {defineConfig} from "astro/config";
import cloudflare from '@astrojs/cloudflare';

export default defineConfig({
  adapter: cloudflare({}),
  output: 'server',
  vite: {
		ssr: {
			external: ['node:buffer'],
		},
	},
})
```

Additionally, you'll need to follow Cloudflare's documentation on how to enable support. For detailed guidance, please refer to the [Cloudflare documentation on enabling Node.js compatibility](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/runtime-apis/nodejs#enable-nodejs-with-pages-functions).

:::note[Package Compatibility Implications]
If a project imports a package into the server that uses the Node.js runtime APIs, this can cause issues when deploying to Cloudflare. This issue arises with package that do not use the `node:*` import syntax. It is recommended that you contact the authors of the package to determine if the package supports the above import syntax. If the package does not support this, you may need to use a different package.
:::

> ## Preview with Wrangler

Reviewer: is the section below still valid/relevant?

(especially the local bindings discussion)

Author: We still find people wanting do know how they can use wrangler to preview the production build output, so we'll keep that included for now.
